hello my name's simonize and welcome to
another simoniz guide video
today we're going to talk about a highly
contentious topic dragon spine trophy
priority
how you should assign this item in your
raids
dragon spine trophy is a highly
contested item that is phase one best in
slot
for many classes and most will use in
later phases
as well many people ask which class
benefits the most
from dragon spine trophy they want to
know which class benefits the most
to help inform a decision about which
players
should receive the item first what class
or what player benefits the most from an
item should not be the only factor to
decide which player to give it to
different guilds will handle loot
differently and could consider many
different factors such as attendance
attitude reliability how many phases the
item is best for
or others when deciding who gets an item
raid dps gain
should not be the only factor in a smart
guild
in this video we're going to answer a
specific question
which player should be given dragonspine
trophy to add the most
to total raid dps in phase one
we'll combine theory and practice to
arrive at a decision
tailored to the actual players in your
raid
here is what we're going to do our
methodology
first we're going to compare the best
setup in phase one
with dragon spine trophy and the next
best setup without dragon spine trophy
for each class in consideration we're
going to exclude
max rammus items because it's not
reasonable to assume your players can go
back to max rammus to get a second best
item
out of there we're going to consider the
percentage gain instead of the raw
gain of dps and we're going to explain
why we do that in a little bit
then finally we're going to combine the
percentage gain
that the theory tells us with the actual
ray dps of your actual players
first what does the theory say we're
going to use
five different tools created by experts
of each class
we're going to use grox empire's port of
katy perry's wow fury sim
we're going to use dizzy it's hunter
simulator we're going to use
my own rogue spreadsheet we're going to
use nigenins
shaman dps and tps spreadsheet and we're
going to use
dalkins spreadsheet for retribution
paladins to give us estimates on what
the theory says
the dps gain of dragon spine trophy
compared to the next best item
is for each of these classes
now why don't we use the raw damage gain
why are we using percentage gains
well these different tools assume many
ideal circumstances
and ideal execution by your players no
player
actually achieves their theoretical
maximum dps in game
and thus will never actually realize the
theoretical
raw dps gain from an item in game
using percentage helps alleviate
differences between different tool
authors
some authors may make more or less
considerations for realism
versus theoretical perfection which
affect each tool's measure of raw dps
output using percentage gain
means that we only need to assume that
each different tool is internally
consistent
that is it measures items against each
other properly within its own
assumptions
we don't worry about if every tool used
is making the same assumptions
now here's the table that we get from
using all those different tools
and combining best and slot phase one
gear with the best trinkets and the
second best trinket setups
the raw dps estimates from each tool are
displayed
and in this column here we have the raw
gain
and then we have the percentage gain
over here and this
is what we care about
now we're going to combine those
percentage gains with
what your players are actually doing
your actual players will not achieve
theoretical maximum dps in actual rates
that's why we got those percentages
you should multiply your player's
average dps performance
with the percent gain that the theory
says the dragon spine trophy will
provide for their class
multiplying a player's average dps
performance by what the theory says
is their percentage gain from dragon's
bind trophy will give you a good
estimate
of how much total dps your actual raid
will gain
by giving dst to that actual player
rather than say
a theoretically perfect player that
doesn't actually exist
so here's an example we have fury
warrior joe
dealing an average of 1200 dps we have
rogue gym
doing an average of 1250 dps we have a
beast mastery hunter james who does 2
600 dps when they're melee weaving
and 2150 dps when not melee weaving
i completely made these numbers up these
are for an example
so for fury warrior joe we take that
1200 dps
and we look at fury warrior is 26597
so we multiply that and we say we're
going to gain about 31.9 dps right here
if we give it to rogue jim uh we take
his
average dps times his percentage gain we
get about 31.7
now for the hunters there's a big
difference when they're melee weaving
versus not
merely weaving and you can see the dps
gain
is significantly different uh 60
when they're melee weaving and only
about 27
when james is not merely weaving
now your actual players almost certainly
will perform differently than joe jim
and james that's why you shouldn't rely
on theory alone
individual players have different skill
levels and different ability to execute
complex rotations
you should combine theory and practice
to determine
maximum rate dps gain now
we have some notes here a couple
different points that i want to make
to really flesh out the the entirety of
the discussion
and first i want to address that to
fully realize
the benefits of dst hunters need to
change their steady shot timing
based on which temporary haste buffs
they have active
there are add-ons and weak ores that can
help with this but this is an added
level of difficulty and complexity
that not all players will be able to
handle or do properly
if a hunter cannot adapt in this way
they will realize
much less benefit from dragon spine
trophy
dst is most exceptional when hunters can
melee weave
as is reflected by the theory melee
weaving
is not feasible on some engagements it's
simply not something they should be
doing
executing it correct when it is feasible
is difficult
a hunter who cannot or does not melee
weave properly
realizes less benefit from dragon spine
trophy
that is why i used dizzy its tool to
display a properly executed
weaving hunter and a non-weaving hunter
rogues and warriors do not need to do
anything special to realize the full
benefit
of dragon spine trophy this means pretty
much
all rogues and warriors will be able to
realize full benefit from dragon spine
trophy
shamans have a soft cap for haste
relating to the internal cooldown of
wind fury weapon
if the dst proc pushes them past this
cap it will be
less valuable to them red paladins have
a soft cap for haste
relating to their seal twisting mechanic
if the dst
proc pushes them past this cap it will
be less valuable to them
i'm pretty sure that the tools used
account for the soft cap of haste for
enhance and rets
and that is why their percentage gain is
rather low
i set all the tools time setting to 180
seconds
fight time significantly influences the
value of some trinket options
i had to do a custom edit to the average
uptime field
for bloodlust brooch and abacus of
violent odds in
dulcin's ret paladin sheet since it did
not have a specific time setting i could
change
many of these tools are still in
development you can absolutely use newer
versions of these tools
to generate new percentages and apply
the same method in the future
while most of these are work in progress
they're the best available that we have
right now to generate these figures
by all reasonable estimates dragon spine
trophy is a rare item
it is very possible that not everyone
who wants dragon spine trophy will be
able to get it
even rating with the same group of
players throughout the entire expansion
estimates put dragon spine trophy drop
chance between 10 and 15
and here's a table that shows different
drop chances and
your chance to see a certain number of
dragon spine trophies
over 16 weeks or four months of raiding
with a 10 or 15 drop chance you're
probably only seeing
two or three dragon spine trophies in a
four month period it's a very limited
item
now some guilds of course will get lucky
and some will get unlucky
these are averages something you can
expect as far as i know
enhanced ret paladins and hunters have
close alternatives
uh to dragon spine trophy in phase three
and finally stop wanting to use dragon
spine trophy with access to phase 5
items
for rogues and warriors dragon spine
trophy is far and away the best trinket
and the alternatives do not come close
at any phase in the game
that concludes this video about dragon
spine trophy priority
remember that raid dps gain is not the
only metric that you should use
to determine who gets an item there are
many more important factors that go into
keeping a cohesive and fun guild
together
screeching that hat man or a spreadsheet
said you would gain five more dps
then the next person and thus should get
dragon spine trophy first
is is not the point of this video and if
that's your takeaway you you have
misunderstood me
thanks for watching the simoniz show if
you haven't already be sure to hit that
subscribe button
can't wait for more sweet videos links
are on screen that you can watch
right now be sure to join the discord
server and pop by on twitch to catch me
live
links to both are in the video
description thank you for watching
and have a great day